


In Wardrop et al., the authors describe two methods to collect accurate population. Those two methods include a top- down method and a bottom- method that assess our need for high spatial- resolution population data. High spatial- resolution population data is useful to estimate resource needs during disease outbreak and natural disasters. The top- down approach combines census population counts along side geospatial covariates and leads to a spatial layer with dasymetric mapping. The bottom- up approach originates with microcensus population accounts which is utilized with geospatial covariates to predict population of unsurveyed areas. Challenges to the top - down approach include that often conducting a census with accurate data is strenuous, while challenges to the bottom- up approach include that sometimes the microcensus population counts cannot accurately predict the under surveyed regions. Disadvantages that come with the bottom- up approach are that it is routinely combined with a census to complement the work and that the microcensus must be completed with accuracy as it will be used to estimate other regions. Advantages to the bottom- up approach include that the dataset is typically open to everyone instead of just the government, allowing organizations other than the government to make an impact with the data. For countries in need of support, it is often hard to gather census data which makes it difficult to conduct a top- down approach. Examples of a top- down approach would be using satellite imagery and census data, while examples of a bottom- up approach include CDR data and microcensus data.
